Boss room readme (#123)
Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.docs: docs/learn/getting-started-boss-room.md

---
id: bossroom
title: Getting Started with Boss Room
---

![Banner](/img/banner.png)

> # Boss Room - Multiplayer Samples Co-op built with Unity MLAPI

Reviewer: I would remove this

The intention is that you can use everything in this project as a starting point or as bits and pieces in your own Unity games. 

## To get the project
 - A release version can be downloaded from the [Releases](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop/releases) page. 
 - Unzip the archive file.
 - You are now ready to add the project to Unity Hub.

:::important Compatibility
- The MLAPI supports all major Unity platforms. To use the WebGL platform a custom WebGL transport based on web sockets is needed.
- MLAPI is compatible with Unity 2020.3.0f1.
- Make sure to include standalone support for Windows/Mac in your installation. 
:::

## To add the project with Unity Hub
1. Open Unity Hub.
1. Click **Add**.
1. Select the root folder of the downloaded project.

  ![adding project to unity](/img/addbossroom.gif)

:::note
The first time you open the project Unity will import all assets, which will take longer than usual - it is normal.
The MLAPI v0.1.0 package will be installed with Boss Room.

> **Issues with importing due to parental control software**
> 
> If you have issues with importing you may want to check your DNS settigns as some ISP parental controls  may block GitHub access.
> 
> https://community.virginmedia.com/t5/Networking-and-WiFi/Web-Safe-Breaks-GitHub/td-p/4279652

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Issues with importing due to parental control software**: If you have issues with importing you may want to check your DNS settings as some ISP parental controls  may block GitHub access. For example, see this information on [WebSafe](https://community.virginmedia.com/t5/Networking-and-WiFi/Web-Safe-Breaks-GitHub/td-p/4279652).
```

:::

> ## To open the project for the first time

Author: section updated

> 1. In Unity Hub double click the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Unity Hub, open the project.
```

1. Navigate to the Project window. 

> 1. Open the *Assets* folder
> 1. Open the *Scene* Folder
> 1. Click the *Startup* scene.
> 1. Click  **Play**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the *Assets* folder.
1. Open the *Scene* folder.
1. Click the *Startup* scene.
1. Click  **Play**.
```

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OSSBWOJq6gI?playlist=OSSBWOJq6gI&loop=1&&autoplay=0&controls=1&showinfo=0&mute=1"   width="854px"
        height="480px" className="video-container" frameborder="0" position="relative" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; loop; playlist; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"  allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

## Testing multiplayer

> In order to see the multiplayer functionality in action we can either run multiple instances of the game locally on our computer or choose to connect ver the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to see the multiplayer functionality in action, you can either run multiple instances of the game locally on your computer or choose to connect through the internet.
```

Author: updated

> ---------------

Author: line removed

### Local multiplayer setup

#### Build an Executable.

1. Click File.
2. Click Build Settings.
2. Click **Build**.

![building the project](/img/buildbossroom.gif)

After the build has completed you can launch several instances of the built executable to be able to both host and join a game.

:::important Mac Users
To run multiple instances of the same app, you need to use the command line.
> Run `open -n BossRoom.app`
:::

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/27Ikr0t7vzg?playlist=27Ikr0t7vzg&loop=1&&autoplay=0&controls=1&showinfo=0&mute=1"   width="854px"
        height="480px" className="video-container" frameborder="0" position="relative" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; loop; playlist; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"  allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

### Multiplayer over internet

:::tip
In contrast to running a local setup, when playing over internet we don't neccessarily need a built executable. We can just run the game in editor.
:::

> Running the game over internet currently requires setting up a Photon Transport for MLAPI or Alternatively you can use Port Forwarding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the game over internet currently requires setting up a [Photon Transport](#photon-transport) for MLAPI or alternatively you can use [Port Forwarding](#port-forwarding).
```

#### Photon Transport

Photon Transport uses Photon relay server to facilitate communication between clients and server living on different networks.

:::unity Learn More

> [Boss Room Photon Setup Guide](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop/blob/release/v0.1.0-experimental/Documentation/Photon-Realtime/Readme.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Boss Room Photon Setup Guide](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop/blob/release/v0.1.0-experimental/Documentation/Photon-Realtime/Readme.md) for details.
```

---
id: bossroom
title: Getting Started with Boss Room
---

![Banner](/img/banner.png)
# Boss Room - Multiplayer Samples Co-op built with Unity MLAPI

:::important

> This project is currently experimental.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This project is currently in early-access.
```

:::

> Boss Room is a fully functional Multiplayer Samples Co-op made in Unity and MLAPI. It is built to serve as an educational sample that showcases certain typical gameplay patterns that are frequently featured in similar games.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Boss Room is a fully functional Multiplayer Co-op Sample game made with Unity and MLAPI. We are building the sample to serve as an educational showcase of specific typical gameplay patterns frequently featured in similar games.
```

The intention is that you can use everything in this project as a starting point or as bits and pieces in your own Unity games. 

## To get the project
 - A release version can be downloaded from the [Releases](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop/releases) page. 
 - Unzip the archive file.
 - You are now ready to add the project to Unity Hub.

:::important Compatability
- The MLAPI supports all major Unity platforms. To use the WebGL platform a custom WebGL transport based on web sockets is needed.
- MLAPI is compatible with Unity 2020.3.0f1.
- Make sure to include standalone support for Windows/Mac in your installation. 
:::

## To add the project with Unity Hub
1. Open Unity Hub.
1. Click **Add**.
1. Select the root folder of the downloaded project.

  ![adding project to unity](/img/addbossroom.gif)

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we add a comment saying something like the MLAPI v0.1.0 package will be installed with the Boss Room project?

Author: I have added this text to the note now
